

Microservices is the next step in service-oriented architecture, allowing companies to achieve agility and scalability at unprecedented speeds.
This architectural paradigm enables “..development teams to independently build, test, package, deploy and scale individual components within 
an application” (Thomas and Gupta). This allows for continual delivery and it forces the technology to be more granulated with independently
deployable microservices. Being able to update, maintain, and deploy independent microservices is what makes this type of system architecture 
so agile and scalable. The figure below shows how increased granularity results in more agility and scalability.  

In their published research, Innovation Insight for Microservices, Anne Thomas and Aashish Gupta look at microservices more in depth and analyze
its effectiveness. They determined that most of the issues a company can run into with microservices has more to do with the employees than the 
architecture itself. Microservices is still in its early stages of development so it requires to be adopted by a company that, “…is mature enough
to adopt microservices by assessing…competency in terms of technologies, skills, processes, collaboration, and willingness to change” (Thomas and Gupta).
Because of its continual delivery, the data needs to be managed just as consistently. Essentially, if a company is not already building dynamic systems,
it is not recommended they adopt microservices architecture. It requires a complete company change and the cost of investing in competent application 
architects, DevOps practitioners, and a new data management system will cost a great amount of money and time. As an alternative, Thomas and Gupta
suggest using miniservices, low-code application platforms, or business process management suites and business rule engines. They allow for 
greater agility however it will not match the scalability advantages of microservice architecture. 

While their research raises legitimate concerns, it would be foolish for organizations not to consider changing their architectural structure
to something as agile and scalable as microservices. Most of the concerns are centered around the competency of the teams using microservices 
but how is that any different from investing teams to learn monolithic architecture. Even if a company is well suited and prepared to change, 
there still needs to be an investment of time and money into adopting this shift in architecture paradigm. There analysis seems very focused 
on short term expenses. If it makes the organization more efficient and services scalable, it is very possible the long term savings outweigh 
the short term costs. Thomas and Gupta rightfully bring up concerns of cost but do not provide data on how that cost is determined. They speak
about how “Some organizations are abandoning their MSA investments due to high costs, project delays and unmet expectations” (Thomas and Gupta).
Did these companies incrementally implement microservices are did they make a complete sudden change in the company mindset? Are the high costs 
from the project delays because they had not invested in teaching the new process? Had they spent more on investing in people could they have
avoided delays and unmet expectations? Although Thomas and Gupta raise legitimate concerns about implementing microservice architecture, they
do not provide much evidence. The risks need to be further researched for an organization to actually determine how effective implementing 
microservices would actually be.
